# gurukula

Project Description:  The project Gurukula is a Selenium-Java Page Object frame work with TestNG, designed from the scratch. Page factory method is used to strictly implement the page Object model Design. 
Locators and methods are independent of test cases. The code is more optimized because of the reusable page classes. The project war file was hosted on a local Tomcat server.

Project Structure: The source folder contains two main packages:
1.) com.gurukula.pages: It contains all the page classes.
2.) com.gurukula.testsuite: It contains 18 test scripts to cover all major functionalities of the application. 
Description of all the test cases is given in the code in the form of comments.


The libs folder contains all the jar files required to run the project.

The Test-output folder contains all the test reports. Index.html is the default HTML test report generated by TestNG.
The TestNG folder contains TestNG.xml which is used to create different combination of test suites. It supports a variety of annotations.



How to run the project: The TestNG project can can be invoked in different ways. 
1.) You can individually run scripts in the TestCase class which have at test annotations(Run As -->  TestNg Test). You can also execute the entire suite by directly executing the Testng.xml(Run As -->  TestNg Suite) .

2.) Via CMD : Assuming that you have TestNG in your class path, the simplest way to invoke TestNG is as follows: java org.testng.TestNG testng1.xml.



Possible future enhancements to the project: The project can be enhaced with a variety of new functionalities such as:
1.) Including datadriven testing to fetch test data from external files.
2.) Enhancing test reports with features like adding screenshots on failed validations.
3.) Dividing the test suite into different classes on the basis of the functionality of tests.
4.) Adding Maven to perform builds and also fetch dependencies from a central repository.



